README.adoc, before:

:numbered:

= RHPAM Provisioning

.Prerequisites:
* Existing *OCP 4.2* cluster environment
* Authentication to that existing OCP 4.2 environment as a cluster admin user.

== Overview
This ansible assists in the provisioning of one or more Red Hat Process Automation Manager instances on a pre-existing OpenShift environment.

This ansible is useful for supporting demos and labs where the focus is the RH-PAM product.

The PAM KIE-Server is configured to leverage a PostgreSQL database.

The following diagram depicts the OpenShift project and corresponding components provisioned by the ansible in this project (along with related ansible):

image::images/arch_topology.png[]

. *pam7-tools-$guid*
+
This OCP project contains a Nexus server and a _pgadmin4_ server.

. *rhpam-dev-$guid*
+
This OCP project contains the PAM Business Central and PAM Kie-server.
The PAM Kie-server stores the state of long running business processes in the _rhpam-postgresql_ database. 

. *rhsso-sso0*
+
RH-PAM offers the ability to optionally secure Business Central and Kie-server using the OpenID Connect protocol.
This _rhpam-dev-ansible_ project provides the ability to optionally integrate with a RH-SSO environment.
+
A RH-SSO environment can be provisioned using the link:https://github.com/gpe-mw-ansible-org/rh-sso-multi-realm/blob/master/README.adoc#kie-realm[rh-sso-multi-realm] ansible.
The _rh-sso-multi-realm_ ansible will create an OCP project called _rhsso-sso0_ . 
Within this _rhsso-sso0_ OCP project, a RH-SSO and corresponding mysql databased will be installed.
+
The RH-SSO instance will be pre-configured with a SSO realm called: _kie-realm_.
_kie-realm_ comes pre-configured with users and roles that support RH-PAM Business Central and Kie-Server.


== Optional Integration with RH-SSO
As per the link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_process_automation_manager/7.3/html-single/deploying_a_red_hat_process_automation_manager_authoring_environment_on_red_hat_openshift_container_platform/index#environment-authoring-single-proc[Deploying a RH-PAM Authoring Env on RHT OCP], Business Central and KIE-Server can be secured via the _OpenID Connect_ protocol by integrating with RH-SSO.

This ansible optionally allows for the provisioning of Business Central and KIE-Server integrated with a previously configured RH-SSO.

The out-of-the-box defaults for integration with RH-SSO closely allign with an RH-SSO provisioned via link:https://github.com/gpe-mw-ansible-org/rh-sso-multi-realm/blob/master/README.adoc#kie-realm[rh-sso-multi-realm] ansible.

All of the default ansible variables needed for integrating with RH-SSO can be found in the following file of this project:  roles/openshift_rhpam_dev/defaults/main.yml .
The default values of these variables can all be over-written at the _ansible-playbook_ command line.

== Environment Variables

kieserver_image_namespace=rhpam-dev-$guid
businesscentral_image_namespace=rhpam-dev-$guid

. *configure_smtp_relay*
+
Optional.
Default = false
+
When set to true, kie-server pod is injected with a sidecar that listens on port 25.
All outbound SMTP traffic will be relayed to a remote SMTP server.
This SMTP relay leverages the following additional variables:

.. *smtp_host*
.. *smtp_port*
.. *smtp_userid*
.. *smtp_passwd*

. *fake_smtp*
+
Optional.
Default = false
+
link:https://github.com/Nilhcem/FakeSMTP[FakeSMTP] is a Fake SMTP Server with GUI for testing emails in applications easily. It is written in Java.
+
When this variable is set to true, kie-server pod is injected with a fake SMTP server sidecar.

. *install_tools*
+
Optional. Default=true
+
When set to false, the _pam-7-tools-$userId_ namespace is not created and corresponding Nexus and PostgreSQL Admin Console are not provisioned.

. *PROMETHEUS_SERVER_EXT_DISABLED*
+
Optional. Default = true
+
If set to false, the prometheus server extension will be enabled.


. *rhsso_url*
+
Optional;
+
If set, value should be of convention:  https://sso-rhsso-sso0.apps-71b4.generic.opentlc.com/auth
+
If set, BC and KIE-Server will be configured to participate in OpenID Connect (OIDC) security

. *seq_start*
+
Optional.
Set this variable when needing to provision a lab environment for multiple students on an existing OCP environment.
Specify first rhpam env to manage; default = 1

. *seq_end*
+
Optional.  Specify last rhpam env to manage; default = 1

. *use_cluster_quota*
+
Optional. Default value is: true

. *use_custom_pam*
+
Optional; 
+
Default value is false in which case PAM images from registry.redhat.io will be used.
+
If set to true, then custom images for Business-Central and KIE Server will be used.
The images are configured with users and groups required to support GPTE courses and labs.
Specifically, the following custom images are derived from RHT RHPAM 7.2.x images:

.. quay.io/btison/rhpam72-kieserver-openshift-gpte:1.1 
.. quay.io/btison/rhpam72-businesscentral-openshift-gpte:1.1

== Install Examples

=== All Components

-----
ansible-playbook playbooks/install.yml \
 -e fake_smtp=true \
 -e configure_smtp_relay=false \
 -e use_custom_pam=true \
 -e kieserver_image=rhpam-ks-apd \
 -e kieserver_image_tag=1.2 \
 -e businesscentral_image=rhpam-bc-apd \
 -e kieserver_image_tag=1.2 \
 -e external_kieserver_image=quay.io/rhtgptetraining/rhpam-ks-apd:1.2 \
 -e businesscentral_image_tag=1.2 \
 -e external_businesscentral_image=quay.io/rhtgptetraining/rhpam-bc-apd:1.2 \
 -e PROMETHEUS_SERVER_EXT_DISABLED=$PROMETHEUS_SERVER_EXT_DISABLED \
 -e rhsso_url=$rhsso_url \
 -e install_tools=false \
 -e seq_start=1 -e seq_end=1
-----


=== Individual Components
. Provision PostgreSQL Admin Console
+
-----
$ ansible-playbook playbooks/pgadmin4.yml \
    -e ocp_user=$ocp_user \
    -e guid=$guid \
    -e use_cluster_quota=$use_cluster_quota
-----

. Provision Nexus
+
-----
$ ansible-playbook playbooks/nexus2.yml \
    -e ocp_user=$ocp_user \
    -e guid=$guid \
    -e use_cluster_quota=$use_cluster_quota
-----

. Provision PAM components
+
-----
$ ansible-playbook playbooks/rhpam_dev.yml \
    -e ocp_user=$ocp_user \
    -e guid=$guid \
    -e use_cluster_quota=$use_cluster_quota \
    -e kieserver_image_namespace=$kieserver_image_namespace \
    -e businesscentral_image_namespace=$businesscentral_image_namespace \
    -e use_custom_pam=$use_custom_pam \
    -e rhsso_url=$rhsso_url
-----



== Custom PAM images generation

. Login to Red Hat registry
----
podman login registry.redhat.io
----

. Build images
----
git clone https://github.com/gpe-mw-training/advanced-process-development-labs-etc.git
cd advanced-process-development-labs-etc
mvn clean install
cd etc/kie-server-docker
podman build -t rhpam-ks-apd:1.2 .
----

. Push images
----
podman login quay.io
podman tag rhpam-ks-apd:1.2 quay.io/rhtgptetraining/rhpam-ks-apd:1.2
podman push quay.io/rhtgptetraining/rhpam-ks-apd:1.2
----

== Uninstall

-----
$ ansible-playbook playbooks/install.yml \
    -e ACTION=uninstall \
    -e seq_start=$seq_start \
    -e seq_end=$seq_end
-----

Commit message:

Now includes optional provisioning of business central monitoring

README.adoc, after:

:numbered:

= RHPAM Provisioning

.Prerequisites:
* Existing *OCP 4.2* cluster environment
* Authentication to that existing OCP 4.2 environment as a cluster admin user.

== Overview
This ansible assists in the provisioning of one or more Red Hat Process Automation Manager instances on a pre-existing OpenShift environment.

This ansible is useful for supporting demos and labs where the focus is the RH-PAM product.

The PAM KIE-Server is configured to leverage a PostgreSQL database.

The following diagram depicts the OpenShift project and corresponding components provisioned by the ansible in this project (along with related ansible):

image::images/arch_topology.png[]

. *pam7-tools-$guid*
+
This OCP project contains a Nexus server and a _pgadmin4_ server.

. *rhpam-dev-$guid*
+
This OCP project contains the PAM Business Central and PAM Kie-server.
The PAM Kie-server stores the state of long running business processes in the _rhpam-postgresql_ database. 

. *rhsso-sso0*
+
RH-PAM offers the ability to optionally secure Business Central and Kie-server using the OpenID Connect protocol.
This _rhpam-dev-ansible_ project provides the ability to optionally integrate with a RH-SSO environment.
+
A RH-SSO environment can be provisioned using the link:https://github.com/gpe-mw-ansible-org/rh-sso-multi-realm/blob/master/README.adoc#kie-realm[rh-sso-multi-realm] ansible.
The _rh-sso-multi-realm_ ansible will create an OCP project called _rhsso-sso0_ . 
Within this _rhsso-sso0_ OCP project, a RH-SSO and corresponding mysql databased will be installed.
+
The RH-SSO instance will be pre-configured with a SSO realm called: _kie-realm_.
_kie-realm_ comes pre-configured with users and roles that support RH-PAM Business Central and Kie-Server.


== Optional Integration with RH-SSO
As per the link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_process_automation_manager/7.3/html-single/deploying_a_red_hat_process_automation_manager_authoring_environment_on_red_hat_openshift_container_platform/index#environment-authoring-single-proc[Deploying a RH-PAM Authoring Env on RHT OCP], Business Central and KIE-Server can be secured via the _OpenID Connect_ protocol by integrating with RH-SSO.

This ansible optionally allows for the provisioning of Business Central and KIE-Server integrated with a previously configured RH-SSO.

The out-of-the-box defaults for integration with RH-SSO closely allign with an RH-SSO provisioned via link:https://github.com/gpe-mw-ansible-org/rh-sso-multi-realm/blob/master/README.adoc#kie-realm[rh-sso-multi-realm] ansible.

All of the default ansible variables needed for integrating with RH-SSO can be found in the following file of this project:  roles/openshift_rhpam_dev/defaults/main.yml .
The default values of these variables can all be over-written at the _ansible-playbook_ command line.

== Environment Variables

kieserver_image_namespace=rhpam-dev-$guid
businesscentral_image_namespace=rhpam-dev-$guid

. *configure_smtp_relay*
+
Optional.
Default = false
+
When set to true, kie-server pod is injected with a sidecar that listens on port 25.
All outbound SMTP traffic will be relayed to a remote SMTP server.
This SMTP relay leverages the following additional variables:

.. *smtp_host*
.. *smtp_port*
.. *smtp_userid*
.. *smtp_passwd*

. *fake_smtp*
+
Optional.
Default = false
+
link:https://github.com/Nilhcem/FakeSMTP[FakeSMTP] is a Fake SMTP Server with GUI for testing emails in applications easily. It is written in Java.
+
When this variable is set to true, kie-server pod is injected with a fake SMTP server sidecar.

. *install_tools*
+
Optional. Default=true
+
When set to false, the _pam-7-tools-$userId_ namespace is not created and corresponding Nexus and PostgreSQL Admin Console are not provisioned.

. *PROMETHEUS_SERVER_EXT_DISABLED*
+
Optional. Default = true
+
If set to false, the prometheus server extension will be enabled.

. *provision_businesscentral*
+
Optional; Default is true
+
When set to false, Business Central will not be provisioned

. *provision_kieserver*
+
Optional; Default is true
+
When is to false, neither KIE Server nor its corresponding postgresql database will not be provisioned

. *provision_monitoring*
+
Optional; Default is false
+
If set to true, a link:https://access.redhat.com/containers/#/registry.access.redhat.com/rhpam-7/rhpam-businesscentral-monitoring-rhel8[PAM Business Central Monitoring] pod will be provisioned.

. *rhsso_url*
+
Optional;
+
If set, value should be of convention:  https://sso-rhsso-sso0.apps-71b4.generic.opentlc.com/auth
+
If set, BC and KIE-Server will be configured to participate in OpenID Connect (OIDC) security

. *seq_start*
+
Optional.
Set this variable when needing to provision a lab environment for multiple students on an existing OCP environment.
Specify first rhpam env to manage; default = 1

. *seq_end*
+
Optional.  Specify last rhpam env to manage; default = 1

. *use_cluster_quota*
+
Optional. Default value is: true

. *use_custom_pam*
+
Optional; 
+
Default value is false in which case PAM images from registry.redhat.io will be used.
+
If set to true, then custom images for Business-Central and KIE Server will be used.
The images are configured with users and groups required to support GPTE courses and labs.
Specifically, the following custom images are derived from RHT RHPAM 7.2.x images:

.. quay.io/btison/rhpam72-kieserver-openshift-gpte:1.1 
.. quay.io/btison/rhpam72-businesscentral-openshift-gpte:1.1

== Install Examples

=== All Components

-----
ansible-playbook playbooks/install.yml \
 -e fake_smtp=true \
 -e configure_smtp_relay=false \
 -e use_custom_pam=true \
 -e kieserver_image=rhpam-ks-apd \
 -e kieserver_image_tag=1.2 \
 -e businesscentral_image=rhpam-bc-apd \
 -e kieserver_image_tag=1.2 \
 -e businesscentral_image_tag=1.2 \
 -e PROMETHEUS_SERVER_EXT_DISABLED=$PROMETHEUS_SERVER_EXT_DISABLED \
 -e rhsso_url=$rhsso_url \
 -e install_tools=false \
 -e seq_start=1 -e seq_end=1
-----


=== Individual Components
. Provision PostgreSQL Admin Console
+
-----
$ ansible-playbook playbooks/pgadmin4.yml \
    -e ocp_user=$ocp_user \
    -e guid=$guid \
    -e use_cluster_quota=$use_cluster_quota
-----

. Provision Nexus
+
-----
$ ansible-playbook playbooks/nexus2.yml \
    -e ocp_user=$ocp_user \
    -e guid=$guid \
    -e use_cluster_quota=$use_cluster_quota
-----

. Provision PAM components
+
-----
$ ansible-playbook playbooks/rhpam_dev.yml \
    -e ocp_user=$ocp_user \
    -e guid=$guid \
    -e use_cluster_quota=$use_cluster_quota \
    -e kieserver_image_namespace=$kieserver_image_namespace \
    -e businesscentral_image_namespace=$businesscentral_image_namespace \
    -e use_custom_pam=$use_custom_pam \
    -e rhsso_url=$rhsso_url
-----



== Custom PAM images generation

. Login to Red Hat registry
----
podman login registry.redhat.io
----

. Build images
----
git clone https://github.com/gpe-mw-training/advanced-process-development-labs-etc.git
cd advanced-process-development-labs-etc
mvn clean install
cd etc/kie-server-docker
podman build -t rhpam-ks-apd:1.2 .
----

. Push images
----
podman login quay.io
podman tag rhpam-ks-apd:1.2 quay.io/rhtgptetraining/rhpam-ks-apd:1.2
podman push quay.io/rhtgptetraining/rhpam-ks-apd:1.2
----

== Uninstall

-----
$ ansible-playbook playbooks/install.yml \
    -e ACTION=uninstall \
    -e seq_start=$seq_start \
    -e seq_end=$seq_end
-----
